WPEs
----

Authors: Ram Nad (@ram-nad), Kris Stern (@kakirastern)

date-created: 2020 May 4

date-last-revised: 2020 May 4

status: Accepted


Related WPEs
------------


Abstract
--------

WPE stands for WildfirePy Proposal for Enhancement. It is a document explaining the purpose,
design, and implementation of possible major additions to the WildfirePy Project.
The purpose of this document is to explain the motivation behind WPEs and establish it as the
primary method for proposing major changes to the WildfirePy Project.


Motivation
----------

The primary motivation behind WPEs is to establish a clear and open way for everyone
to propose changes to the WildfirePy Project. A WPE provides all the necessary information
related to the proposed change(s) while also serves as the specification for addition/update
to the codebase. Other key benefits of this system are:

 - To provide a way to track the origin of ideas
 - To encourage everyone to contribute to the project
 - To makes it easy to use WPE's git history to track updates and changes
 - To allow storage and sharing of contents easily


Detailed description
--------------------

A WPE will contain the following information:

`Authors`: Primary authors of the WPE.

`Status`: Status of the WPE, either *accepted* or *rejected*.

`Date of Proposal`: Date when the WPE is first proposed.

`Date of Update`: Date of the last update to the WPE. For example, if a particular implementation
detail is changed later, WPE will be updated accordingly and the date of update needs to be
changed.

`Related WPEs`: List of related WPEs. For example, if new WPE proposes update to
a feature put forward by a previous WPE.

`Decision Rationale`: Summary of the rationale behind either accepting or rejecting a WPE.

`Contributors`: People who have contributed ideas to the WPE.

`Link to previous versions`: The GitHub links to previous merged versions of the WPE.

Apart from the above, a WPE will contain an abstract outlining the major parts of a WPE,
the motivation behind the WPE, detailed description, implementation details, and references
to external resources if any.

Updates to WPEs will be considered under the following circumstances:

 - Grammatical correction(s)
 - Changes in implementation
 - Minor changes, that do not require a major update to the codebase
 - Changes that depend on external factors like data sources or project dependencies

Other than the conditions stated above, changes to the WPEs will not be considered.
For making any other changes to the features introduced by a particular WPE,
a new WPE will need to be created. If a WPE is updated later by a new WPE,
it is expected that the old WPE will be updated as well to point to the new WPE.

Whenever a WPE is updated after it is merged, it should add a link
to the previous version of the WPE.

Also, it is expected that a group of people will be ready to undertake the task of
updating code per the WPE if it is accepted. It might be difficult to accept WPE
without a commitment from at least one person.


Implementation
--------------

A new GitHub repository `WildfirePy-WPEs` will be made. Anyone willing to make a WPE
will need to send a Pull Request to this repository. The discussion over that WPE
will take place in the GitHub PR thread.

After a consensus is reached to either accept or reject a WPE, the `Decision Rationale`
and `Status` must be updated accordingly, and finally the WPE will
be assigned a sequential number.

Also, each WPE will have a DOI badge that needs to be generated and added to
the `README.md` of the repository before PR is finally merged. The badge needs
to be regenerated for updated WPEs.


References
----------

This WPE is inspired by `EinsteinPy's EPEs <https://github.com/EinsteinPy-EPEs>`_.


Decision rationale
------------------

The members of the community had discussions over the WPE proposal and came to a
conclusion that the method proposed in this document is fitting with the requirements
of the community.


Contributors
------------

Raahul Singh (@Raahul-Singh), Abhijeet Manhas (@abhijeetmanhas)


Previous Versions
-----------------

*This is the first version of the document.*
